Speaking about important features there's one more very important feature We'll definitely need and
that is services and dependency injection.
Let's say we have more components holding and using our users data.
Now for example the app component could also output some data about users.
So here besides having our app users component we could have a separate section where we have also a
list of our user select user of users.
Remember users is now a property of our or if just for users of this registry users is a property of
Arap component.
So we can loop through the registered users and then we can simply output it here.
So we're doing the same as in the users component here.
Now we're passing we're just road users to the uterus component.
So everyone is able to use that.
But if we have more and more components using that passing it around and storing it and Yapp component
might not be optimal for cases like these where we have some shared code or in general some methods
or data we want to centralize.
We typically use a service.
So I will create a new file in the app folder or your own name at the user's dot service Dot.
Yes.
And the service is simply a typed up class so users service would be the name.
And this already is a service.
Now a year we could have our users aere the one we currently have in our app component.
So let me CADORET and Android here all he would name registered users and then we could have a method
get users where we simply return this registered users.
We could also directly access the census as a public property.
We can mark it as private though and we could also have the ad user said users and so on.
But I'll keep it simple and simply get my users.
Now I want to use it as user service in other components because I clearly need my users here in the
app component and then the user component.
I don't want to use the input any more which is why I commented out because I'm not passing it anymore
because the app component doesn't have the users anymore.
So we can also remove this code here.
All duplicated and comment in the old form so that we can still see this.
But then in the current form I will remove it.
So we want to use that service instead.
And to use that service we kind of need to access this newly created service class and we could do this
in the constructor of our app component for example.
Constructor is the default typescript for javascript constructor which is available.
It's not an angle or a feature.
So here we could say we add a new users property which is of type any an array of anything.
And we say this users equals and then we somehow need access to our users service let's create this
a user's service could be new users service and we could import isn't instantiated and then execute
get users.
And this is not how you would do it.
So remove that killed.
I will keep that user's array and I will adjust the loop to loop through users instead of registered
users.
But you don't instantiate services on your own you let Engler do this and Engler does this for you with
a concept called dependency injection.
This means that in the constructor you can define which dependencies your component has for example
it needs to use real service.
Now I want to bind this to a property named user's service and is just a type of shortcut by placing
a private or public in front of it.
This will also automatically true Yate a user's service property in this class.
So I could do this explicitly or let typescript do this so without private or public it wouldn't do
it.
But with it will also give me that property.
And then this will be of type use or service use or service there for all that needs to be imported
here at the top.
Now this is important for this type assignment here in the constructor.
We're telling angler to hey please give me an instance of this user's service class and therefore English
you will instantiated for us.
And this has the advantage to English to all managers.
D all the instances that might treat out our application.
Now this allows us to now if we're in the constructor or in any place of our component to access this
user service again which is registered as a property in this class because of this private shortcut
here the shortcut we're using by placing private or public in front of it and then they can access get
users and set as equal to users.
So now this users is equal to whatever I get from my service.
However that won't work.
As with component's anger too is not scanning your whole project for any services or classes in general.
You might have.
You might want to inject.
Instead it will need to be informed and you do it in format by adding a new property to your component
decorator which is called providers.
This takes lot to you or Engler which services which classes do I want to inject here and I want to
inject the user service.
So simply an array of types you want injected is bound to providers and your users services the only
type this will work as you can see if I now save this UCD list here.
You don't see it in the users component because it is broken right now.
We're not getting users there but the disadvantage possibly is that now anger you will create an instance
for it is app component and if we copy the same code to the user's component so copy the constructor
make sure to add the import and to also add the user's property here.
And also add the providers if we add all that to the users component you will see that this should work
fine.
You'll see the list of names here too.
But they actually angle are created two instances of this service of this class one for each component
where we set up providers.
And this is just how dependency injection angler works.
It has a hierarchical injector which means for every component where you specify providers it will create
a new instance of the class as you define here.
Once you're injecting them in the constructor.
Some components of this component would use the same instance if they don't set up providers on their
own.
If you want to make sure that your whole application uses one in the same instance of this class and
this can become important if you also manipulate the data in this class and want to share does this
manipulate the data cross components you have to remove providers in the components you don't add them
on the component level.
We want to add them on the application level and we do it as an app module.
Here we also get a provider's array.
And here we can also add everything we want England to be able to inject for us the user service for
example.
Make sure to also add the import of that type with this if we saved this you should see that the application
still works fine.
But now we're using one at the same instance of the users service class for our whole application because
it's set up here.
So sometimes you might need different instances then definitely provided on component level.
In other cases if you want to make sure that you're using one in the same instance make sure to add
it here in the app module